## World War 1 Notes

- Militarism
		As armies got stronger from the industrial revolution, the countries believed the stronger the army the increase patriotism among citizens
- Alliance
		The triple Alliance (Germany-Italy and Austria-Hungary) the Triple entente (England, France & Russia)
- Imperialism
		Europeans nations competed firercely for colonies in Africa and Asia
- Nationalism
		 Rivalries due to militarism and imperialism increased nationalism among European powers. Due to imperialism, empire were dividing into seperate weaker nations.


## Buildup 
- How it started -  The Balkans had split (The Ottoman empire) into Sebia, Greece, Albania, Bulgaria and Romania. The Slavs in Serbia wanted to unify all of the Slavs, however Austria - Hungary refused to give up their certain territories (Bosnia and Herzegovina)

- The Outbreak of WW1 - Serbians were devoted to take Bosnia and Herzegovina from Austria - Hungary, but in June 28 1914 the assassin Gavrilo assassinated the Austrian - Hungarian Archduke Franz Fredinand and his wife.

- July 23rd, Australia created an ultimatum to Serbia: "to turn over conspirators and allow an investigation... OR ... go to war" The Serbians disputed terms of the ultimatum so as a consequence they declared on 28th of July 1914
- The Russians moved troops to the Austrian border as they were allies of Serbia and has a large population of slavs.


- 28th July 1914 WW1 Begins (Austria and Hunary declares war on Serbia)

## Timeline
- August 1, 1914 Germany declared war on Russia.
- August 3rd Germany declared war on France.
- August 4th England decalred war on Germany and Austria - Hungary
- Italy left the Triple alliance and joined the allies.
- Germany and Austria - Hungary become the Central Powers
- They were joined by Bulgaria and the Ottoman Empire
- The Triple Entente became known as the Allied Powers and were joined by many other allied countries later on.

AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAa