## Universal Declaration of Human Rights

**11.6 Check Your Learning

1. *In your own words, define 'Human rights'.*
	**Human rights are rights that all human being have regardless of their nationality, place of residence, sex, creed, ethnic origin, colour, language or any other status.**

2. *Outline why people were inspired to create the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.*
	**After the atrocities that was brought from the war, world leaders started to form the United Nations as a response to these horrors. As a results, they began work on formalising a set of basic human rights.**

3. *Identify who spoke in support of the declaration on 2 December 1948. What was their message?*
	**Eleanor Roosevelt spoke in suppport of the declaration on the 2nd of December 1948**
	
4. *Summarise the role Hervert 'Doc' Evatt played in the creation of the declaration*
	**Evatt spoke in support of the declaration and doing so, was able to convince the traditional powers. He believed that the world shouldn't be caught up in another tragedy such as WW2 but should instead, should take a leading role in the development of the issues of international peace and security. Evatt was the President of the General Assembly in 1948 to 1949, during this time, he led the drafting of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.**

6. *Discuss whether Senator Alexander Matheson's comments support the need for the creation of a Universal Declaration of Human Rights.*
	**Senator Alexander Matheson's comment on the Aboriginals did not support the need for the creation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. He believed that Aboriginal man or women should be able to acquire the right to vote.  "We have taken this country from the blacks, and made it a white man's country, and intend to keep it a white man's country".  This is clearly a violation of article 17: Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others. The "whites" had claimed Indigneous land *terra nullius* ignoring the fact that the Aboriginals had claimed this land as their
